
CHIRP Channel Sets

The basic CHIRP channel set is the concatenation of the three CrIS
bands in a "mid-res" mode, with OPD 0.8, 0.6, 0.4 cm, without any
guard channels.  This is not an official resolution for the CrIS SDR
product, but it is supported by UMBC CCAST.  The AIRS-parent CHIRP
channel set is a subset of this, because not all CrIS channels are
close to AIRS L1c channels, in particular at the high end of the CrIS
MW band.  The missing channels for AIRS-parent CHIRP are described
below.

CHIRP QC

AIRS-parent CHIRP granules have two QC fields, rad_qc, an nobs-vector
with one flag value per obs, and chan_qc, an nchan-vector with one
flag value per channel.  For both, 0 = OK, 1 = warn, and 2 = bad.
(For CHIRP as currently defined, nobs = 12150 and nchan = 1679.)

rad_qc is a combination of the AIRS "state" field and some basic
sanity checks of the data.  As currently implemented there is no
warn state because it's not clear that the AIRS "state" variable has
that; it's values are 0:Process, 1:Special, 2:Erroneous, 3:Missing.
(I think the idea with L1c was to try and fix anything that would
otherwise need a warning.)

chan_qc is set to 2 (bad) for AIRS-parent CHIRP, for those channels
without AIRS parents.  For channels with AIRS parents, chan_qc is set
to 1 (warn) for parents with excessive synthetic content.  synth_frac
is the linearized AIRS to CrIS transform applied to AIRs L1cNumSynth,
expressed as a percentage.  Channels with AIRS parents are set to 0
(OK) if synfrac < 0.15, and to 1 (WARN) otherwise.  This typically
gives around 420 WARN values out of approximately 1435 translated
channels.

